.TH GLITE-WMS-JOB-CANCEL "1" "GLITE-WMS-JOB-CANCEL" "GLITE User Guide"
.SH NAME:
glite-wms-job-cancel

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B glite-wms-job-cancel [options]  <jobID1> <jobID2> ...  

options:
        --version
        --help
        --config, -c <configfile>
        --vo <voname>
        --debug
        --logfile    <filepath>
        --noint
        --input, -i  <filepath>
        --output, -o <filepath>
        --json
        --pretty-print

.SP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.SP
.SP

glite-wms-job-cancel cancels a job previously submitted using glite-wms-job-submit. Before cancellation, it prompts the user for confirmation. The cancel request is sent to the WMProxy that forwards it to the WM that fulfills it. glite-wms-job-cancel can remove one or more jobs: the jobs to be removed are identified by their job identifiers (jobIds returned by glite-wms-job-submit) provided as arguments to the command and separated by a blank space. The result of the cancel operation is reported to the user for each specified jobId.
.SH OPTIONS 
.B --version

.IP
displays WMProxy client and servers version numbers.If the --endpoint option is specified only this service is contacted to retrieve its version. If it is not used, the endpoint contacted is that one specified with GLITE_WMS_WMPROXY_ENDPOINT environment variable. If the option is not specified and the environment variable is not set, all servers listed in the WMProxyEndPoints attribute of the user configuration file are contacted. For each of these service, the returned result will be displayed on the standard output (the version numbers in case of success; otherwise the error message).
.PP
.B --help

.IP
displays command usage
.PP
.B --config, -c <configfile>

.IP
if the command is launched with this option, the configuration file pointed by configfile is used. This option is meaningless when used together with --vo option
.PP
.B --vo <voname>

.IP
this option allows the user to specify the Virtual Organisation she/he is currently working for.If the user proxy contains VOMS extensions then the VO specified through this option is overridden by thedefault VO contained in the proxy (i.e. this option is only useful when working with non-VOMS proxies).This option is meaningless when used together with --config-vo option.
.PP
.B --debug

.IP
when this option is specified, debugging information is displayed on the standard output and written also either into the default log file:glite-wms-job-<command_name>_<uid>_<pid>_<time>.loglocated under the /var/tmp  directory or in the log file specified with --logfile option.
.PP
.B --logfile <filepath>

.IP
When this option is specified, a command log file (whose pathname is filepath) is created.
.PP
.B --noint

.IP
if this option is specified, every interactive question to the user is skipped and the operation is continued (when possible).B --input, -i <filepath>

.IP
cancels jobs whose jobIds are contained in the file located in filepath. This option cannot be used if one or more jobIds have been specified. If the --noint is not specified, the list of jobIds contained in the file is displayed and the user is prompted for a choice. Single jobs can be selected specifying the numbers associated to the job identifiers separated by commas. E.g. selects the first, the third and the fifth jobId in the list.Ranges can also be selected specifying ends separated by a dash. E.g. selects jobIds in the list from third position (included) to sixth position (included).It is worth mentioning that it is possible to select at the same time ranges and single jobs. E.g. selects the first job id in the list, the ids from the third to the fifth (ends included) and finally the eighth one.
.PP
.B --output, -o <filepath>

.IP
writes the cancellation results in the file specified by filepath instead of the standard output. filepath can be either a simple name or an absolute path (on the submitting machine). In the former case the file filepath is created in the current working directory.
.PP
.B --json

.IP
This option makes the command produce its output in JSON-compliant format, that can be parsed by proper json libraries for python/perl and other script languages. Please note that --json and --output options are mutually exclusive.
.PP
.B --pretty-print

.IP
This option should be used with --json. Without it the JSON format is machine-oriented (no carriage returns, no indentations). --pretty-print makes the JSON output easily readable by a human. Using this option without --json has no effect.
.PP

.SH EXAMPLES
.SP




.SP
.B -
request for canceling only one job:glite-wms-job-cancel https://wmproxy.glite.it:9000/7O0j4Fequpg7M6SRJ-NvLg

.SP
.B -
request for canceling multiple jobs:glite-wms-job-cancel https://wmproxy.glite.it:9000/7O0j4Fequpg7M6SRJ-NvLg \                     https://wmproxy.glite.it:9000/wqikja_-de83jdqd \                     https://wmproxy.glite.it:9000/wugrfja-de91jxxd 

.SP
.B -
the myids.in input file contains the jobid(s)glite-wms-job-cancel --input myids.in
.SP
.SP
A message with the result of the operation is displayed on the standard output
.SH FILES 
.SP

voName/glite_wms.conf: The user configuration file. The standard path location is $GLITE_WMS_LOCATION/etc (or $GLITE_LOCATION/etc);


.SP
/tmp/x509up_u<uid>: A valid X509 user proxy; use the X509_USER_PROXY environment variable to override the default location


.SP

.SH ENVIRONMENT 
.SP



.SP
.B -
GLITE_WMS_CLIENT_CONFIG: This variable may be set to specify the path location of the configuration file.

.SP
.B -
GLITE_WMS_LOCATION: This variable must be set when the Glite WMS installation is not located in the default paths: either /opt/glite or /usr/local.

.SP
.B -
GLITE_LOCATION: This variable must be set when the Glite installation is not located in the default paths: either /opt/glite or /usr/local.

.SP
.B -
GLITE_WMS_WMPROXY_ENDPOINT: This variable may be set to specify the endpoint URL

.SP
.B -
GLOBUS_LOCATION: This variable must be set when the Globus installation is not located in the default path /opt/globus.

.SP
.B -
GLOBUS_TCP_PORT_RANGE="<val min> <val max>": This variable must be set to define a range of ports to be used for inbound connections in the interactivity context

.SP
.B -
X509_CERT_DIR: This variable may be set to override the default location of the trusted certificates directory, which is normally /etc/grid-security/certificates.

.SP
.B -
X509_USER_PROXY: This variable may be set to override the default location of the user proxy credentials, which is normally /tmp/x509up_u<uid>.

.SP
.B -
GLITE_SD_PLUGIN: If Service Discovery querying is needed, this variable can be used in order to set a specific (or more) plugin, normally bdii, rgma (or both, separated by comma)LCG_GFAL_INFOSYS: If Service Discovery querying is needed, this variable cbe used in order to set a specific Server where to perform the queries: for instance LCG_GFAL_INFOSYS="gridit-bdii-01.cnaf.infn.it:2170"